This project distinguishes whether infrared atmospheric sounding interferometer's (IASI's) instantaneous fields of view (IFOVs) are covered by clouds or not. IASI is an atmosphere detector on satellite Metop launched by European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT). There are 8461 channels in it, which can detect atmosphere vertically in details. However, as clouds covers target objects, and they exist in more than 90% IFOVs,  mostly corresponding IFOVs are contaminated by clouds' brightness temperature. Cloudy IFOVs have to be kicked off in order to get clean data. 

Therefore, a new feature construction method is proposed for infrared hyperspectral data, such as what IASI releases. Concretely, four channels of IASI are picked, namely channel 921, channel 386, channel 306 and channel 241. They are picked because of physical characteristics. And then, the cloudy IFOVs are classified by logistic regression.

The recall, auc and accuracy of this new method carried on IASI data was more than 0.95 when detecting the IFOVs of sea, while the result of land's IFOVs was far from it. After adding surface emissivity features, the auc of it increased by aroud 5%, and recall of it grew by 10% approximately.

#  Experiments
1.  EX1: Test whether the new method is sensitive to earth surface cover.
    Datasets are divided into land and sea datasets, and models are trained seperately. New method performs better on sea dataset than on land dataset. 
2.  Ex2: Test whether surface emissivity features will elevate the classification scores on land dataset.
    Add surface emissivity features into old features, and estimate ROC curve, AUC and recall. AUC and recall all promotes.
3.	Ex3: Test whether the selected features have the making of explaining classification result, which is estimated by the correspondences of features' importance and prior knowledge. 
	By Comparing the feature importance scores generated by random forest, for sea dataset, what scores indicates is identical with priors, and for land data, the consistency of scores and prior congnition rises up after adding surface emissivity features.
4.	Ex4: Test the effectiveness of selected features.
	Experiments with more channels of IASI are carried on, and the results of which are compared with scores in limited features. With more features, the scores even decreases. 
5.	Ex5: Test the robustness and practical capability of this new method.
	This new method win out over XGBC and RF in time consumption, computing reqirements and apparent formulas with limited features. However, min-max normalization preprocessing is required by this methodology for least biased model.

# Codes' Framework 
----data		: The expiriment data.

----preprocess: Split, normalize data.

----logistic	: All models, including XGBC and RF.

----ana		: Analyze results.

----util		: Utilities for IO, plotting, etc.

# Encoding
The files in this project is encoded in UTF-8, either English characters or Chinese characters.

# Tips
1. Do not fit xgbc after fitting random forest, for me, the python kernel almost died while testing with hundreds of features.# cloud
